Name: Xie Xiaolei
citizenship: Sweden
mobile: +46 76 060 6638
email: xie.xiaolei@gmail.com
Address: Kiviksgatan 7C, 21440, Malmö, Sweden

Education:
1. Ph.D. in Mathematical Statistics
   Copenhagen University, Denmark
   Oct. 2014 - Sep. 2017
   * Time series analysis: ARIMA, GARCH, stochastic volatility models
   * Asset allocation & risk management:
     	   Principle component analysis;
	   optimization of investor utility functions;
	   extreme value theory
   * Numerical methods:
     	   Importance sampling
	   numerical optimization
	   estimation of GARCH(p,q) tail indices

2. M.Sc. in Mathematical Physics
   Lund University, Sweden
   Sep. 2011 - June 2014
   * Thesis project: Distribution of eigenvalues of large sample
     covariance	matrices in the infinite dimensional limit with
     a focus on the influence of autocorrelations and heavy tails. The
     theoretical derivation is based on the free probability
     theory and is checked against intraday tick-by-tick prices
     of high-volume Swedish stocks.
   * Course work:
     Mathematical methods of Physics and Engineering
     Statistical mechanics
     Quantum mechanics
     General relativity
   * Average grade: 87/100

3. M.Sc. Computer Science and Engineering
   Helsinki University of Technology, Finland
   Sep. 2005 - June 2008
   Major: Computing - Services and Security
   Average grade: 4.17/5.

4. B.Sc.Computer Science and Engineering
   Beijing Institute of Technology, China
   Sep. 2001 - June 2005
   Average grade: 89/100

Publications
1. Tail-indices and scale parameters of returns series
   Xie, X., Mikosch, T. and de Vries, C., 2017
   Being finalized
   
    It is a stylized fact that equity return distributions are
    heavy-tailed. We discuss how an investor's preference of an equity
    varies with the parameters of the tail distribution of the return on
    equity. These parameters can be seen as characteristics of the
    market and provide a quantitative description of the status of the
    market.
    In addition, we also find optimal asset allocation schemes
    corresponding to different investor preferences as captured by the
    investors' utility functions. These results can be useful when
    considering a problem of asset allocation. Real-world stock return
    series, which have motivated our work, are analyzed and presented.

2. An efficient estimator of the probability of very large losses posed by
   GARCH(p,q) processes
   Xie, X. and Collamore, J, 2017
   Being finalized

    We propose an efficient importance sampling estimator of the
    probability of excursion over high thresholds (causing large
    losses) by Multivariate Markov chains e.g. a GARCH(p,q) process or
    a multivariate GARCH process.
    Although stationary distributions of these processes are known
    to have power-law tails, precise evaluation of the tail
    probabilities is difficult because the exact distribution is
    unknown. Moreover, naive simulation methods lead to erratic
    estimates. Our importance sampling estimator presents a solution.

3. The eigenvalues of the sample covariance matrix of a
   multivariate heavy-tailed stochastic volatility model
   Xie, X., Jansen, A., Mikosch, T. and Rezapour, M. 2016
   To appear in the Bernoulli Journal

    We derive multivariate alpha-stable limit distributions of the
    sample covariance matrix when the sample size was large. We
    consider two possibilities of heavy-tails: 1. the innovation
    sequence is heavy tailed; and 2. the volatility sequence is
    heavy-tailed. While the eigen system of the first case is shown to
    resemble that of i.i.d data, the eigen system in the second case is
    found to allow dependencies in their limiting distributions, which
    are determined by the structure of the volatility sequence.

4. Extreme value analysis for the sample autocovariance
   matrices of heavy-tailed multivariate time series
   Xie, X., Davis, R.A., Heiny, J. and Mikosch, T. 2016
   Published in the Extremes

    We provide, among others, a limit theory for the largest eigenvalues
    of a sample covariance matrix of heavy-tailed, possibly linearly
    dependent data with infinite dimensions. We prove weak convergence of
    the point process of the largest eigenvalues to Poisson or cluster
    Poisson processes and, based on this convergence result, derive limit
    laws of functions of the ordered eigenvalues.

Employment
1. ST-Ericsson, Lund, Sweden
   Audio, Multimedia, Development Engineer
   Sep 2008 - Jan 2011

   My responsibilities included developing audio low-level software,
   typically device drivers, in the Linux OS. This involved designing and
   implementing data structures and procedures so that the hardware
   devices were used in the optimal way, in terms of parallelism,
   power consumption, robustness, and ease of maintenance.

   C, C++, Java, Linux

2. Helsinki Institute of Information Technology, Helsinki
   Research Assistant
   Oct 2007 - May 2008

   Funded by HIIT, I wrote my thesis ``A Mutual authentication and Key
   Agreement Protocol for the UMTS Network''. The algorithm of my
   protocol proposal was based on the Diffie-Hellman Exchange, but had
   significant modifications and extensions so that the mutual
   authentication between the mobile user and the network was delegated
   to the serving instead of the home network. The protocol design
   incorporated puzzle schemes that demanded unbalanced computing
   resources on the two sides to mitigate Denial-of-Service attacks.

   C, C++, Linux

3. Goodmill Systems, Helsinki
   Software Designer
   May 2007 - Sep 2007

   I developed a daemon program that ran on the company's smart router
   product to collect statistical data about the router's network
   traffic. The emphasis of the program was high performance in the
   context of competing read and write accesses.

   C, C++, Linux

4. Cardinal Information Systems, Helsinki
   Software Developer
   Sep 2006 - April 2007

   I implemented the FLUTE protocol for the company's DVB-H
   mobile-end middleware. The implementation was multi-threaded and was
   built on the pthread library. Good performance and robustness
   were crucial requirements on the implementation.

   C, C++, Linux

5. Digital Chocolate, Helsinki, Finland
   Game Engineer
   Feb 2006 - Sep 2006

   My responsibilities were porting and customizing mobile
   phone games for various handsets.

   Java, J2ME, Bash

6. Beijing Holystone Ltd, Beijing
   Software Engineer
   April 2004 - June 2005

   I developed JSP pages and database routines for
   the company's information system.

   Java, J2EE

Other Interests:
1. Algorithmic trading, alpha generation
2. statistical inference, machine learning, neural network

