Name: Xiaolei Xie
Citizenship: UK, Sweden
Mobile: 073801911666
email: xie.xiaolei@gmail.com

Work Experience

(1) 08/2021 - present: senior quantitative modeller at London Stock
Exchange Group (LSEG). My day-to-day responsibilities are research and
development of the company's Yield Book product. The product offers
the fair price as well as other analytical data of financial contracts
including fixed-income, FX and mortgage, and my focus is on
fixed-income and FX. The R&D projects to which I have made major
contributions include the following:

* convertible bonds: for pricing of which I implemented the Heston
  volatility model for the underlying equities using C++ in the Linux
  OS. The implementation uses the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) for
  multi-dimensional minimisation, numerical integration and general
  algebra. The implementation uses OpenMP to support
  multi-threading. The implementation produces a stand-alone program
  that estimates the parameters of the Heston model by matching
  theoretical prices of European options according to the model with
  their counterparts quoted on the market. The estimated model
  parameters are used as input to calculate the fair price of
  the convertible bonds.

  The volatility surfaces produced by the implemented model match their
  market-quoted counterparts considerably better than do the SSVI model
  that was used in the production system at the time. This is especially
  true for at-the-money volatility slices.

  The model has been implemented to a good level of efficiency - the
  calibration of a Heston model typically takes 2 to 5 seconds when run
  on a 4-core, 2.4GHz server.

* Volatility surface inference: For equities that do not have liquid
  option trading, I developed a Python program to infer their volatility
  surfaces using Principal Component Analysis. It is assumed that the
  equities' relative returns have a constant correlation matrix and that
  the weights of the principal components remain constant too. Then
  the volatility surface of an equity, for which a Heston model can
  not be fitted, can be constructed point by point using the Heston
  volatility surfaces of other correlated equities. Python packages
  including numpy, scipy and sqlite were used for the implementation.

* Re-factorisation and parallelisation of legacy C code: This is a
  project to make the company's ETF pricing capabilities usable to
  customers who need analytics on a click-and-see basis. Some
  fixed-income and mortgage ETFs e.g. AGG have 10000+ components and
  take an unacceptably long time to be processed when the legacy C code
  is used. I undertook the task to parallelise the code by spawning
  multiple instances of the pricing server and eventually collecting the
  results in one instance. The main difficulty is re-factorising or
  replacing the data structures in the legacy code to make them suitable
  for serialisation. I also took this project as an opportunity to
  modernise the code and make it more readable and more maintainable. I
  used C++ for the project and the cereal library for serialisation.

Apart from working on the major development projects, I also

* mentor new joiners of the team;

* answer customer enquiries such as why the price/OAS of a particular
  bond on a particular day is what it is;

* fix bugs or enhance the code of the pricing server following
  internal model validation or customer enquiries.

(2) 10/2018 - 08/2021: quantitative analyst at Lloyds Bank. Being part
of the model validation team, I had undertaken the following
R&D projects:

* Forecast of the UK Retail Sales Index (RSI): The index is published
  by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) every month. I led a
  team of 3 and, by collaborating with the economists of the bank, built
  a time series model (linear regression + ARMA) of the index. The model
  makes 1-month-ahead forecast of each component of the index based on
  the weather data compiled by the UK meteorology office. The model
  was coded in Python using numpy, scipy, statsmodels and sqlite.

* Enhancement of the stress-testing framework: The project was meant
  to provide a precise and mathematically well-founded method to
  the stress-testing work undertaken by the risk department. The aim
  was to assess the size of the loss that a portfolio of interest rate
  products can sustain as a result of changes to the yield curve. I
  proposed modelling the fluctuations of a selected set of points on
  the yield curve using a constant copula together with
  scenario-dependent marginal distributions. I programmed the model in
  Python using numpy, scipy and sqlite.

(3) 10/2017 - 06/2018: quantitative analyst at Atenvia Asset
Management. My contributions included the following:

* Forecast and analysis of company fundamentals: I built time series
  models to forecast the revenue and profit of publicly traded
  companies using the historical values of those quantities found in
  the companies' financial reports. The models were built in Python
  using numpy, scipy, statsmodels and MySQL.

* Back-testing of algorithmic trading strategies: I developed C++
  programs and Python scripts to simulate the data feed and order
  execution services provided to an algorithmic order generation
  system. I programmed in C++ to generate sample paths of Merton's
  jump-diffusion model and the Heston model, and then stored them in a
  MySQL database as fictitious prices. I used OpenMP to support
  multi-threading of sample path generation.

  I also developped Python scripts to analyse the evolution of the
  portfolio maintained by an algorithmic trader. 

(4) 09/2008 - 09/2011: Software Engineer at Ericsson. I was
responsible for the development of audio device drivers in the Linux
OS. The devices were part of the mobile phone platform used by
e.g. Sony-Ericsson phones. I developed the device drivers following
the devices' hardware specifications. In the course of the
development, I designed the signalling route and the overall software
architecture so that the software was optimised in terms of
noise level, sound quality and electricity consumption, which
together delivered a very pleasant user experience. I also made the
efforts to make the code readable and easily maintainable.








